Okay, guys.
So we will look today at building a decoupled architecture in the US solution architecture.
So the first thing we want to understand that the Cathay architecture now supports hundreds of thousands
of users.
However, it is difficult to make changes to one layer of the application without affecting the other
layers.
And this has basically take us to decoupling your architecture with decoupling, we normally referred
to a tightly coupled component, but what we really mean by that in tightly decoupled components, the
idea that if you have a web application and this web application, for example, take a request from
a Web server, Amazon, Route 53, then that with you will also send a request to the application tier
and the application tier will normally speaks with the DB2.
Now, what is the problem with a tightly coupled component?
If one of these component crashes for any reason, for example, this application tier or application
server, it crashes, then the both tier application and servers, they will be not functional.
And this means we have to maintain the application and and to resolve that, we need to decouple them
by inserting a third layer in between them that basically make them totally independent of each other.
So to resolve this issue, guys, we can mainly make and increase our application availability and the
scalability and reliability by decoupling those components so we can add more resources to the application
tier.
But even so, with that is not going to fully help us to achieve full tolerance, but it will achieve
a high level of scalability.
So there is multiple forms of system coupling.
There is application level coupling, which means we are going to run that coupling or that component
in the source code are tightly coupled.
So inside the application itself, there is a basis of those code, a function that needs and wait for
the result calculated by another component or another piece of code.
There is also platform company when they build that application, that application designed to run in
Linux operating system or in a mac OS operating system or even it is tightly cable to Windows operating
system or to this framework, for example.
In this case, you have only the choice to run your activity in that kind of operating system.
And we call this a platform coupling.
There is also a spatial coupling.
And those components, they are mapped and managed by a specific topology, and they can only run in
that spatial type of environment with an active protocol level or at that communication.
And a good example of this is the novel or the Apple Network, the old Apple Network, the API in which
we don't use it today, or when you have an application that only accepts, for example, as an initiative
as is us.
And in this case, you need to have, for example, a classical balancer to deal with this kind of application.
And there is runtime company with runtime coupling.
Once the application is executed, that application requires us to have a specific environment like
the Java virtual machine.
And that Java virtual machine needs to be installed in that web browser before that application can
do any thing.
So in order to make our component closely coupled, what we could do is to introduce a third layer.
And that layer we normally use an elastic load balancer, and this elastic load balancer will help us
to mainly decouple the web tier from the application.
So for example, when users try to access our resources, that will go to the answer and the load balancer
will distribute this evenly distributed across it to all with it in the same way.
Once a web tier needs to speed with the application tier, this is will go to the elastic load balancer
and the elastic load balancer.
And in this case it will be an internal elastic balancer.
We forward the request to the free machine that they have less and more capacity to handle the request.
In this case, if we do this kind of scenario by introducing external load balancer and internal load
balancer.
We are going to face higher flexibility if one of these machine crashes.
This is will not impact that we see it at all because the request could go to the healthy target and
unhealthy target might be replaced using end of the scale.
In this section we are going to look to an you said this to us, which is the Amazon symbolic service
for us.
Q In asking us, it's a fully managed, highly scalable service that we have in either the cloud and
the concept of a Q in computer science is that it is the same Q you use when you go to, for example,
to the 18 to get some cash, first guy in the queue, he will be the first guy to reach the agent.
That's why we call them in computer science.
We always use those accuse architecture to handle multiple processes when they all need to be processed
one by one in a queue.
We have a content to produce this and we have a content consumer.
What we mean by that, once I publish my video, I produce a content and you will be all subsequent,
for example, to my channel and you will get another vacation that there is a new content upload.
So because you are a subscriber and you want to see those videos, all my classes, you are going to
get an education that there is a new content added to that class and you will consume the value in computer
science.
You can imagine most architecture depending on this fact.
There is one machine, for example, that you see to generating PDF and another machine wants to take
that PDF and convert it to document consume that how we can make sure that both they can work together
and without any delay or bottleneck or even over.
This simple solution for that is to enforce the producer to generate the document into a Q and those
a q will be processed by the consumer one by one in a first in, first out basis.
So the first be the effort place in the Q is going to be the first PDF converted to document Vitacost.
We call these this and this.
You know how you can do the same architecture in the of us and you implement a first in first out behavior
you need to use a service which is called as Q ask us is a fully managed messaging service that it used
the problem messages in ask us on encrypted and is stored until they are a process.
So once of the easy to generate a pdf that be the message will stay in the queue until we get somebody
to process that PDF and convert it to in the act as a buffer between the producer of the content and
the consumer of the content.
You have a guy who could produce, for example, ten PDF every second.
That's the first two and we have as well another easy to which reads five PDFs every second.
In this particular case, that PDF generated by the first two instances will not be able to process
them by the second instances is on time.
So the consumer in this particular scenario is more slower than the produce.
This is what cause an overflow.
And above that you will have multiple PDFs basically wasted on the process or even unseen to resolve
that.
What you could do is to protect you and then that the Q all the data of generated by the producer will
be placed on the queue.
And then the guy, which is the consumer, he will process those PDF in his own face without affecting
the work of the user, without creating an overflow, and without creating even a bottleneck between
the consumer and the.
With Amazon, ask us.
You can ask synchronous processing to get your responses from each to quickly, and you can handle performance
and achieve high level of service requirements by increasing the number of job instances.
So for example, instead of having one easy to generate PDF at every second, you could have two easy
to use reading from the queue each of those easy to handle process five feeds a second.
In this case, all the pdf that are generated from the first producer will be consumed in the process
by two now to easy to use instead of one two.
And this is what we refer to as the horizontal scalability, where you multiply the number of machines
to process those five.
Also with loosely coupling inside Amazon with Amazon SKU, you can have an easily recover ability from
the steps because the messages will remain in the queues until they are the process.
The general use cases for us?
Yes, you can use them as a word.
Reduce buffering and batching operation request offloading and the trigger.
Amazon easy to auto escape.
Now in Amazon there is two types of view.
It is the standard, the queue and there is the first in the queue.
It's very important for you guys to know that these are very important for the solution.
Why?
Because they want you to know the differences between a standard, the queue and a first in the queue.
In a standard queue.
It will guarantee that you have at least one delivery, so the message or that pdf will be delivered
to one easy to at least one time.
The second it is best for all.
Of which means if the first easy to in a sense is generated by the F1, then it will generate PDF too.
It is not responsible or it's not mandatory that the F1 will be processed before PDF too.
It might be the order.
Not really important, and we call this a computer science based A4 service.
Now the throughput of the standard, the queue is unlimited or nearly unlimited, which means you can
place large number of messages and you will be high, highly scalable to process them.
Now, what about first in, first out from me, we can understand that they will be messages will be
delivered.
Messages will be delivered in.
So the fast media always a process before the second.
The second difference AIDS give you an exactly one SIP process so it can guarantee that the message
will be processed by the consumer at least one time.
In the first one, it will guarantee that it will deliver the message one time in first in first to
invest out the queues.
We have high throughput, not nearly unlimited, so the throughput and the volume of the messages will
be much higher in first in, first out in Amazon.
Ask us if give you three major features and those also very important for the solution.
On the first one we call it in the digital queue.
Any message that remains in the queue in a time frame and never being the process you can place them
in added later or in another queue with all these messages, unseen messages that maybe for a technical
error or some issues in the program, we could process that.
So you could have a look to them again or process them by another software or another easy to to handle.
The second feature is the visibility time.
You can specify how much time each message should remain unprocessed in the queue, and after that time
expire the visibility time.
A message, for example, in 5 minutes after 5 minutes is the PDF never been processed.
You can place it in the queue or ignore it totally or delete it from the view.
Depending on your application architecture, you can set up this based on the requirements you want
to achieve.
So for example, if this is a financial transaction, you want to make sure that this transaction should
be processed within the first 30 seconds if it's not the process decline and go and generate another
financial transaction.
The third type is long haul.
The long following we can, for example, if.
Would so in our example generate then PD of split second and the consumer now can read two F per second.
This means that the producer in this case will generate more video than the consumer can handle.
And this means that the consumer needs to wait for a long time to go back to the queue and read the
next process or the next video, which will take him time to solve.
So we are telling us just now we have a very slow consumer.
Give him all the time to finish everything he has before you do anything, before you delete the existing
messages.
All of this then in a digital, you know, what are the message.
Life cycle in Amazon is the first thing you do is to create the message and that message will be placed
in ask.
You said in the queue.
The second message will be picked by the consumer and it will be processed at that.
This basically will start the time out for the visibility, how much the message will remain to the
queue in the queue.
So after we sitting that visibility timeout and that timeout started.
This means the message will be removed from the queue once the visibility time is out.
In the third step, the message gets deleted by the consumer after it is processed, and in this case,
a new message will be processed by the consumer.
And this is a good example how you can use Amazon US to decouple a deal from an application tier and
database.
So you can see here we have an elastic loop balancing forwarding the request to multiple with those
are let us keep the same example they generate.
Each one of them appear.
The video file will be placed on a queue and that basically will pop them all in.
Ask us to order any any process.
Order will go to the rest of the queue and all the order that will be picked by the application here
will be deleted from the queue and the process by the application to the use cases for us as they normally
use them for service to service communication.
You have for example, a service and that main service speaks, for example with kitchen service when
you have also two items, which means to work with each other in asynchronous way, which means the
processing time or the time clock of the consumer is totally independent from the time clock of the
produce.
And you can look to this in a very simple example.
Maybe you have an easy to machine that generate some content between two different timezone, one time
zone in the United States and another time zone in both these two instances will never be live together
at the same time.
One is two in Ireland, one is two and is in all 50.
In this case, the generator of the content when you place it in a queue and later on when the Irish
is it the instance came alive, we go to that the queue and fetch the first message in the queue.
And then when you have a state change imagery and the state change notification is very important to
deal with inconsistencies because for example, if the temperature of the room change lately, this
is what we mean, the state behavior of our software change.
If you do any information or any event, this is now is the trigger another process to handle those
any changes or even anticipated changes or unforeseen one.
And this is very important because we use a change of status as well in order to scale it.
If you remember what we did, when we have to scale up all to scale up, always look to your infrastructure.
And if there is a change in the CPU level, it will add or remove machine.
So you can place those changes or events in an excuse and that as you execute, will be used to trigger
another service or to trigger another action.
The second service that we use normally for decoupling is called the symbol in sets and the symbol notification
service.
Now work in this in the ask you as you normally have a consumer publishing content and we have a producer
producing in the US, us and us in the symbol notification service.
The story is a bit different because you have a publisher, it will pop and place a new content in original
and there is multiple processes interested to be noticed.
Once a new entry or a new item added to that topic, we call this publisher subset.
So imagine yourself you are a subscriber to a news feed.
A subscription to a news feed is what we call in computer science, the publisher subscriber model.
So once there is a new event or a new article published in, for example, in the financial in the financial
markets, and you have some interest to subscribe to all the latest news about Bitcoin once there is
a new event about Bitcoin you will be in is totally different from the previous case when we say there
is a publisher generating files and then another easy to investors need to consume those files.
Here you are, a publisher subscriber model rather than you pull the content and then we tell you now
the difference between a sentence and in.
So Amazon, a sentence is a highly available, scalable, secured and fully managed publisher subscriber
service.
You can use a push mechanism.
And remember, guys, here, we in essence, we do have a push mechanism so that the publisher posted
the message and the subscriber will get the message.
It will be notified its support as well in the topic using Customer Master Key.
And this is an exciting question the attention to it now there is many transport to political.
You are a subscriber to a specific publisher topic.
For example, time you can get notification about the latest news on in bitcoin using your email or
even it can send you unlisted to be auto setpiece, which you can whip off to another tool like for
example, Slack or any team notification service that you have in your team or it can send you an SMS
to your mobile phone or even it can replace the new message in another queue, which is in this case
will be an ask us.
And the last thing you could do as well to why are sent as with the function so it will trigger a lambda
function.
They use cases for Amazon and as that it will be used for the application assistant alert.
It will be used for push email and text messages, which is what we call normally in this business,
the push notification, push notification without your mobile going to the head of the queue and pulling
delete this content, it will receive a new notification about any distant use that happened in the
topic that you are subscribed and like Bitcoin.
And the last thing is of course mobile applications and all of you must be familiar what our why notification
is what you did with essence.
You have to consider a single published message is going to be delivered.
There is no recall option.
Once the message leave us and as you can't recall it, you can change your mind and say, please return
back.
That is like there was an error in the message.
I need to get the message back and edit it.
Also, order and delivery is guaranteed if you send multiple messages in a sentence like this is in
one in two, not necessarily.
They will be received by the subscribers in the same order, or sometimes it might be not delivered.
So when that message is sent to all mobile devices, if one device was off, you would never get the
message.
And you can have a retry policy for a messaging protocol, which is for the delivery protocol, which
means if the message delivered, you can retry, you'd say in a grace period of time or in a period
of time just to make sure that your notification will be received by the user.
And this is a good example how we can work both together and to build a highly decouple.
We have an application and that application is a mobile application.
We have users uploading images to us.
This is will generate an event and that event will be sent to a sentence topic.
You can call this topic a new image upload.
Once that topic receive a new message that will send a new message to three different SKUs as a SKUs.
So in this case, here we have the person, as is the producer of the content, we have the uploading
of the image.
To us, it's the bucket is the publisher.
So the publisher put a new content into us three.
So basically this is will generate any content by us send us into three different the queue I want a
queue will be used to take that file and convert it to somebody the second the queue will be used to.
Basically resized the image into a mobile format and then the Q when resize the image to make it more
suitable for with application and desktop e.g. Q is consumed by a set of easy to two instances running
behind and or to scale, so each instance will go to the ask.
Q I read this message in the queue, pull it, process it, change it to the desired format, and then
place it in a target bucket.
Now, what are the differences between ask us and this is seriously important for you understanding
of both services and for the solution.
Remember that the essence is a publisher subscriber.
There is one service generating content to place it in a topic.
That topic has multiple subscribers, but in Ask US, you have one service generating content and another
service consuming that.
Now the delivery mechanism, in essence of the subscriber need to do nothing to get their message.
Your mobile phone receive notification without doing anything, without requesting or pulling or sending
or calling a procedure or API.
It will receive that message because it was life in a queuing.
It's active policy, which means your mobile device.
If you want to get the latest content, you need to go to that queue and pull the head of the, you
know, the distribution model.
In essence, it's many, too many, many people could publish latest news about bitcoins and thousands
and millions of users.
Maybe they are interested to hear about Bitcoin.
So they will subscribe to this topic and they will get they will get the latest news generated by people
and ask us it's 1 to 1 to keep this in your mind as you us is not handling one too many.
It should be 1 to 1, one guy producing content and one guy consuming this same point and the message.
Persistence, in essence, the message.
Once to leave the service, it will no longer be available.
It will be totally deleted from the essence service.
But then ask you as the content of the queue for the presents, you could replace them.
Delete them from the queue.
Yes, but you could replace them in the queue as or you can change the visibility time of that message.
So in this section we understand the importance of and ask you us to decouple your application and let
us look to a more advanced architecture, how we can make a highly digital application.
So we want to look, for example, to a high professional service.
It's called Amazon and Execute, which is another queuing application or another service for queuing
and communication.
When you have multiple produce at Amazon, AMCU is a managed messaging service for Apache Active, and
this is a very famous product in the industry and this basically the most compatible service for that
service in it is Amazon, AMCU.
It can be used for the provisioning setup and maintenance of active and the queue again simplifies is
the message migration specifically when you have an active on the queue on the centre and you want to
take all that messages from doctor broker also to your cloud infrastructure, it is compatible with
the open standard API and protocol and this means it support multiple different flavor of active on
the queue.
So you have for example, a steel amp and acuity and with socket and also JMS, which is Java, for
example.
This is for a socket and a layer and an acuity is also a very famous protocol.
We use it in a very popular product in this industry called the logic of Queue with Amazon MQ, you
can use it as to migrate between your message, your broker that you have on the premises data centre
and your infrastructure in the cloud know the features and the differences between AMCU and this skills.
And then as soon as you can summarize this, then in this day for an acute you normally use it for application
migration.
What we mean by that, maybe you have a smart home setup and there is multiple centre sensors and those
sensors, they keep sending you data from your smart home into a queue.
Let's say it can be Raspberry Pi.
Maybe you have it running in that tool and you want to upload those messages.
The latest sensory data to Atelier.
In this case, you want to link that.
Acuity that you have in the Raspberry Pi in your home with the infrastructure that you have in the cloud,
maybe you have an AC two machine where you want to display all these sensory data in a dashboard in
a smart home dashboard.
Now Amazon, any Q can be used with multiple a protocol like the one with simple java or with socket,
but S.A. and you as they are history deep as only.
The second difference is is that they ask us and this and they gone in the cloud they never been on
a data center before and in Amazon and the Q you pay per hour and the gigabyte but in escudos and this
and unless you pay per request beside this is a message broker which means it is operate as a publisher
subscriber.
Then it also can do publisher subscriber, model and consumer and the produce a model both it does support
by Amazon.
I'm now with ask you as Anderson as ask you ask cannot do publisher subscriber but it can do publisher
subscriber in Amazon S.A..
So by this we finished module 12, which is building the global architecture.
And I advise you now to keep in your mind that in this module we need to understand those three services.
Most likely you will get an exotic question about ask us and we have differentiated between tightly
coupled and loosely covered component.
Remember loosely coupled architecture with identify how Amazon can be used and employed to decouple
your infrastructure and also how you can employ Amazon as an asset.
And you can also use Amazon.
I'm a Q to link your on a firm in the center with a cloud infrastructure and.